README.md, before:

# Delete.py: `rm` with safety checks added

**Demo Video:**

![Terminal recording of delete.py](./assets/Demo.gif)

**Try it out:**

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete/master/install_delete_python.sh | bash
```

## Overview

It is ***so*** often the case that I misuse the `rm` command. Take this, for example:

```bash
> rm package*
# deleted package.json and package-lock.json
```

Ahem...I just deleted my precious `package.json` while trying to delete my `package-lock.json`. Or what about this:

```bash
> ls | grep hello.txt
hello.txt

> rm -rf helo.txt
# no warning

> rm -rf helllo.txt
# no warning

> rm -rf hello.tx
# still no warning!
```

Unfortunately, the file is still there, and I have no idea that I didn't delete it. Or if this happens:

```bash
> rm -rf node_modules
# rm: cannot remove 'node_modules': Is a directory
```

Arrgh...you get the idea

**And these little things add up.**

We programmers have to use the `rm` command dozens of times a day. Every time we do something silly, wrong or even dangerous, the `rm` command is unable to correct our mistakes. What's more, the `rm` command is a **silent command**. If you run `rm -rf`, there's nothing stopping you from deleting your entire codebase - which you forgot to push to GitHub for some lazy reason.

**That is why I created delete.py.**

## Functionality

In most ways `delete.py` resembles the `rm` command, just in a more opinionated way. After all, it is basically a wrapper around `rm`, with some improvements using python. These include:

* Colorful commands with red/green/bold colors to keep things clear
* Avoiding the `is a directory` nonsense of `rm`
* Showing how to solve a particular error if you face one
* Allowing you to move something to trash rather than to permanently remove it
* (Opinionated) making moving to trash default
* (Opinionated) asking for confirms, and always setting the less destructive version as default
* (Opinionated) having only one "true" command line argument

Notably, while `delete.py` technically "absorbs" any command other than `-ff`, so you could really pass any argument to it (such as `-4u` or `-m8`), it only has one real commandline flag: `-ff`. The two f's stand for "forced force" which is why I added it.

Usage is very simple:

```bash
delete [-ff] <your-file-or-folder>
# e.g. delete ~/Downloads/Bloated-useless-stuff.gif
```

This command can be made even more simple if you read about [using aliases](#aliases) down below:

## Install

### Basic Install

To install this application, run this one-liner command:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete/master/install_delete_python.sh | bash
```

What this basically does is to run my `installDeletePython.sh` script after downloading it from github. This ensures you'll always have the latest, most up-to-date version of `delete.py` available from your computer.

### Install errors

* You may need to open a new terminal after running the command for `delete.py` to start working
* You will need to make sure that there is a file called `~/.profile` in your home directory

### Manual Install

First, clone the source code from GitHub:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete.git && cd Safe-Delete
```

Then, copy the python script to `/usr/local/bin`:

```bash
cp delete.py /usr/local/bin/delete
```

Setup aliases:

```bash
# if you don't have a ~/.profile, create one
echo "export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH" > ~/.profile
echo "alias rm='delete'" > ~/.zshrc # if you are using zsh shell (most MacOS)
echo "alias rm='delete'" > ~/.bashrc # if you are using bash shell (most GNU/Linux)
```

### Development

To start developing this application, run this command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete.git && cd Safe-Delete
```

### Aliases

To fully make use of `delete.py` however, I would recommend you *alias it* as `rm`. For those that don't know, an alias is like a command substituter, so when you type in one command, like this one:

```bash
> rm -rf my_useless_bloated_1GB_node_modules_folder
```

The alias actually runs this command in the background:

```bash
> delete node_modules
```

(In this case, the aliases used were `alias rm='delete'` and `alias node_modules='my_useless_bloated_1GB_node_modules_folder'`)

This is something that the install script will do by default, but if you are manually installing it, you will need to do this yourself. Just open your `~/.bashrc` file (if you use bash), or `~/.zshrc` file (if you use zsh)\*, and add in this line (no space before or after the equal sign):

```bash
alias rm='delete'
```

\*: Fish shell aliases are something I don't know much about, please inform me if you are experienced with it!

If you do this, your old muscle memory of `rm` doesn't need to be forcibly retaught to use `delete` instead.

## Bugs and Fixes

This project has a fair number of bugs that are being fixed. However, you can be sure that more and more bugs will get fixed as the project matures!

- [x] Bug with giving too many arguments fixed
- [x] Bug with a filename with spaces fixed (so you can now say `delete "hello world.txt"`)
- [x] Bug with `\` in filenames fixed (so `delete my\ file` is now valid)
- [ ] Fix not deleted file bug: check if file has actually been deleted when `-ff` is used

## Limitations

Deleting multiple files, or using certain expressions that `rm` provides isn't always going to work with `delete.py`. For instance, the wildcard symbol (\*) which is used to delete multiple files only deletes the first file of the sequence using `delete.py`.

Commit message:

Updated README for latest features and fixed nonclear areas
Former-commit-id: d6e0ea168528667a8443869e85bc4a6502c0d3b5 [formerly fe3b75512aef8f6d9917baa0b12c9d298d5d3b6e] [formerly 9938f6f236fd62a3ba4f1043cbc43225fe6ec9db]
Former-commit-id: f9953e91eeff8927d0cf93ffdea7ec57635f9d53
Former-commit-id: 579edc30b1f633282db62996192d410f3e7ee115

README.md, after:

# Delete.py: `rm` with safety checks added

**Demo Video:**

![Terminal recording of delete.py](./assets/Demo.gif)

**Try it out:**

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete/master/install.sh | bash
export $TRASH = ~/.local/share/Trash # Or whatever you want it to be
```

## Overview

It is ***so*** often the case that I misuse the `rm` command. Take this, for example:

```bash
> rm package*
# Result: deleted package.json and package-lock.json
```

Ahem...I just deleted my precious `package.json` while trying to delete my `package-lock.json` (and forgetting the other file). Or what about this:

```bash
> ls | grep hello.txt
hello.txt

> rm -rf helo.txt
# no warning

> rm -rf helllo.txt
# no warning

> rm -rf hello.tx
# still no warning!
```

Unfortunately, the file is still there, and I have no idea that I didn't delete it. Or if this happens:

```bash
> rm -rf node_modules
# rm: cannot remove 'node_modules': Is a directory
```

Arrgh...you get the idea.

**And these little things add up.**

We programmers have to use the `rm` command dozens of times a day. Every time we do something silly, wrong or even dangerous, the `rm` command is unable to correct our mistakes. What's more, the `rm` command is a **silent command**. If you run `rm -rf`, there's nothing stopping you from deleting your entire codebase - which you forgot to push to GitHub for some lazy reason.

**That is why I created delete.py.**

## Functionality

In most ways `delete.py` resembles the `rm` command, it just does things in a safer way. After all, it is basically a wrapper around `rm`, with some improvements using python. These include:

* Colorful commands with red/green/bold colors to keep things clear
* Avoiding the `is a directory` nonsense of `rm`
* Showing how to solve a particular error if you face one
* Allowing you to move something to trash rather than to permanently remove it
* Cancel any operation at any time with `Ctrl C`
* Confirmation bars that are enough to catch your attention but not enough to affect your productivity
* (Opinionated) Making moving to trash default
* (Opinionated) Asking for confirms, and always setting the less destructive version as default
* (Opinionated) Having only one "true" command line argument so you can't mistype an argument and shoot yourself in the foot

Notably, while `delete.py` technically "absorbs" any command other than `-ff`, so you could really pass any argument to it (such as `-4u` or `-m8`), it only has one real commandline flag: `-ff`. The two f's stand for "forced force" which is why I added it.

Usage is very simple:

```bash
delete [-ff] <your-file-or-folder>
# e.g. delete ~/Downloads/Bloated-useless-stuff.gif
```

This command can be made even more simple if you read about [using aliases](#aliases) down below:

## Install

### Basic Install

To install this application, run this one-liner command:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete/master/install.sh | bash
export $TRASH = ~/.local/share/Trash
```

What this basically does is to run my `install` script after downloading it from Github. This ensures you'll always have the latest, most up-to-date version of `delete.py` available from your computer. Next, it sets your Trash directory - if a trash folder does not exist then one will be created, but you can configure it to your liking.

### Install errors

* You may need to open a new terminal after running the command for `delete` to start working
* You will need to make sure that there is a file called `~/.profile` in your home directory

### Manual Install

First, clone the source code from GitHub:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete.git && cd Safe-Delete
```

Then, copy the python script to `/usr/local/bin`:

```bash
sudo cp delete.py /usr/local/bin/delete
```

Setup aliases:

```bash
# if you don't have a ~/.profile, create one
echo "export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH" > ~/.profile
echo "alias rm='delete'" > ~/.zshrc # if you are using zsh shell (most MacOS)
echo "alias rm='delete'" > ~/.bashrc # if you are using bash shell (most GNU/Linux)
```

### Development

To start developing this application, run this command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Songtech-0912/Safe-Delete.git && cd Safe-Delete
bash manual_install.sh
```

### Aliases

To fully make use of `delete.py` however, I would recommend you *alias it* as `rm`. For those that don't know, an alias is like a command substituter, so when you type in one command, like this one:

```bash
> rm -rf my_useless_bloated_1GB_node_modules_folder
```

The alias actually runs this command in the background:

```bash
> delete node_modules
```

(In this case, the aliases used were `alias rm='delete'` and `alias node_modules='my_useless_bloated_1GB_node_modules_folder'`)

This is something that the install script will do by default, but if you are manually installing it, you will need to do this yourself. Just open your `~/.bashrc` file (if you use bash), or `~/.zshrc` file (if you use zsh)\*, and add in this line (no space before or after the equal sign):

```bash
alias rm='delete'
```

\*: Fish shell aliases are something I don't know much about, please inform me if you are experienced with it!

If you do this, your old muscle memory of `rm` doesn't need to be forcibly retaught to use `delete` instead.

## Bugs and Fixes

This project has a fair number of bugs that are being fixed. However, you can be sure that more and more bugs will get fixed as the project matures!

- [x] Bug with giving too many arguments fixed
- [x] Bug with a filename with spaces fixed (so you can now say `delete "hello world.txt"`)
- [x] Bug with `\` in filenames fixed (so `delete my\ file` is now valid)
- [ ] Fix not deleted file bug: check if file has actually been deleted when `-ff` is used

## Roadmap

- [ ] Implement support for safe globbing (e.g. `delete *.py`) but also make sure that the user knows how many files they are deleting in this way (e.g. tell the user "you are deleting 3 files with extension `.py`, here are their filenames")
- [ ] Make it cross-platform (by supporting Windows as well)
- [x] Auto-detect the user's system Trash folder on first launch, or create one if one does not exist already
- [ ] Add in an option to clean the Trash folder such as `delete -c` which would empty the trash folder - this avoids the Trash folder getting cluttered with items that `delete` "safely" sent to Trash and didn't permanently delete
  - [ ] Also warn the user if their Trash folder has > 1 GB of files

## Limitations

Deleting multiple files, or using certain expressions that `rm` provides isn't always going to work with `delete.py`. For instance, the wildcard symbol (\*) which is used to delete multiple files only deletes the first file of the sequence using `delete.py`. This is planned to be fixed soon.
